---
layout: post
title: "Phases"
date: 2023-10-15 16:10:00 -0700
categories: tutor
---

## Vocab
- Phase: homogeneous part of the system in contact w/ other parts of the system but separated from them by a well-defined boundary.
    - ex. Water + Oil -> 2 phases
    - ex. Melted ice in iced tea -> 1 phase
- Polarizability: the ease w/ which the electron distribution in the atom | molecule can be distorted.
    - This increases w/ greater # of e-, more diffuse electron cloud.
    - Generally increases w/ molar mass.
- Induced dipole: https://lavelle.chem.ucla.edu/forum/viewtopic.php?t=36207

## Phase
- Gas
    - Assumes volume and shape of container
    - Low density
    - Very compressible
    - Free moving
- Liquid
    - Has a definite volume but assumes the shape of its container
    - High density
    - Barely compressible
    - Slide past one another freely
- Solid
    - Has a definite volume but assumes the shape of its container
    - High density
    - Incompressible
    - Vibrate about fixed positions
- Gas moves more, therefore usually has more kinetic energy -> temperature than liquid, same reasoning for liquid & gas.
- Three ways of motion: Translation, Rotation, Vibration.

## Forces
- Intermolecular forces are attractive forces between molecules.
- Intramolecular forces hold atoms together in a molecule.
- Intramolecular forces are way stronger than Intermolecular forces.
    - Vaporize 1 mol of water: 41 kJ (inter)
    - Break all OH bonds in 1 mol of water: 930 kJ (intra)
- Measures of intermolecular force
    - Boiling point
    - Melting point
    - &delta;H<sub>vap</sub>
    - &delta;H<sub>fus</sub>
    - &delta;H<sub>sub</sub>

### Types of Intermolecular Forces
- Dipole-Dipole: between 2 polar molecules. (opposite charges attract)
- Ion-Dipole: between ion & polar molecule. 
    - Strength: use coulomb's law, size, strength of charge, all changes strength.
- Dispersion: result of temporary dipoles induced in atoms | molecs.
- Hydrogen Bond: special dipole-dipole interaction between the hydrogen atom in a polar N-H, O-H, or F-H bond and an electronegative N, O, or F atom.
    - _a_ -- H * _b_ where _a_, _b_ are N, O, or F.
- What's the type of force between:
    - HBr: HBr is a polar molecule ->  



